			      LM-PROLOG
				  by
		      Ken Kahn and Mats Carlsson

LM-Prolog is an implementation of Prolog for the MIT family of Lisp
Machines.  The Prolog dialect differs quite a bit from the Edinburgh
Prolog family of dialects both in terms of syntax and built-in
predicates.  The bulk of the code was written in 1983, when the
authors were at Uppsala University.  The work was supported by the
Swedish National Board for Technical Development (STU).

Ken Kahn wrote two precursors to the present implementation, one in
Pure Lisp and one based on flavors and message passing and implemented
libraries of built-in predicates and demo programs.  The present
implementation compiles Prolog predicates to Lisp functions, using
success continuations to emulate the Prolog control structure.  Mats
Carlsson implemented the compiler and runtime support including
microcode extensions for LMI CADRs and Lambdas.

This code is provided as is, without any warranty or support.
It has run on an LMI Lambda Release 3.0 of December 1986.
Earlier versions ran on all Symbolics and LMI models, but
it is unlikely that this version does.

Although the implementation language - ZetaLisp - is similar to Common
Lisp, porting the system to Common Lisp would be a major project since
extensive use was made of ZetaLisp features such as locatives,
invisible pointers, and flavors.

The code is free, and can be used and distributed provided:

- this file is not removed,

- any research work that uses this code, or ideas from this code, should
  acknowledge this work.

This file was written in December 1989.
Send any questions to:

kahn@parc.xerox.com (Ken Kahn)
matsc@sics.se (Mats Carlsson)

Bibliography:

K.M. Kahn, "A Grammar Kit in Prolog", in New Horizons in Educational
Computing ed. Yazdani M., Ellis Horwood Ltd., Chichester, U.K., 1983,
and in Proc. AISB Easter Conference on Artificial Intelligence and
Education, April 1983, and UPMAIL Technical Report 14C, revised
February 1985.

K.M. Kahn, "Unique Features of LISP Machine Prolog", UPMAIL Technical
Report 15B, revised February 1985.

K.M. Kahn, "A Primitive for the Control of Logic Programs", Proc.
1984 Symposium on Logic Programming, Atlantic City, and UPMAIL
Technical Report 16, February 1983.

M. Carlsson, "LM-Prolog - The Language and its Implementation", UPMAIL
Technical Report 30, October 1984.

UPMAIL TR's are available from: Librarian, UPMAIL, PO Box 520, S-75120
UPPSALA, Sweden.
